README.md, before:

# awesome-developer-trends
An awesome list of trends, surveys, and other pieces of data tracking the pulse of the IT industry. A big list of quantitative resources for people looking to understand more about trends in developer tools, communities, practices, and work. Intended for Product Managers, developers, marketers, entrepreneurs, and the odd software development anthropologist.

## Annual "State of" Reports

- [Github State of the Octoverse Report](https://octoverse.github.com/) (2016 - Present)
  - [2020](https://octoverse.github.com/2020/)
  - [2019](https://octoverse.github.com/2019/)
  - [2018](https://octoverse.github.com/2018/)
  - [2017](https://octoverse.github.com/2017/)
  - [2016](https://octoverse.github.com/2016/)

- [Stack Overflow Developer Surveys]() (2011 - Present)
  - [2022](https://survey.stackoverflow.co/2022)
  - [2021](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2021)
  - [2020](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2020)
  - [2019](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2019)
  - [2018](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2018)
  - [2017](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2017)
  - [2016](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2016)
  - [2015](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2015)
  - [2014](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2014)
  - [2013](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2013)
  - [2012](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2012)
  - [2011](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2011)

- [Devographics' State of JS Survey](https://stateofjs.com/en-us/) (2016 - Present)
  - [2021](https://2021.stateofjs.com/)
  - [2020](https://2020.stateofjs.com/)
  - [2019](https://2019.stateofjs.com/)
  - [2018](https://2018.stateofjs.com/)
  - [2017](https://2017.stateofjs.com/)
  - [2016](https://2016.stateofjs.com/)

- [Devographics' State of CSS](https://stateofcss.com/en-us/) (2019 - Present)
  - [2021](https://2021.stateofcss.com/)
  - [2020](https://2020.stateofcss.com/)
  - [2019](https://2019.stateofcss.com/)

- [Devographics' State of Graph QL](https://www.stateofgraphql.com/en-us/) (2022 - Present)
  - [2022](https://www.stateofgraphql.com/en-us/) This one is still running, submit your answers!

- PYPL Popularity Surveys
  - [Programming Languages](https://pypl.github.io/PYPL.html)
  - [IDEs](https://pypl.github.io/IDE.html)
  - [ODEs](https://pypl.github.io/ODE.html)
  - [Databases](https://pypl.github.io/DB.html)

- **Smartbear's Various State Ofs** Smartbear, unfortunately, requires that you provide an email address to access this information. I'll leave it up to the individual reader to decide whether the information they provide is worth having your inbox flooded with promotional emails about Swaggerhub.


## Contributing
Please do! If you know about any surveys that we are missing, please open an issue or make a PR.

Commit message:

Updated with few more surveys

README.md, after:

# awesome-developer-surveys
An awesome list of trends, surveys, and other pieces of data tracking the pulse of the IT industry. A big list of quantitative resources for people looking to understand more about trends in developer tools, communities, practices, and work. Intended for Product Managers, developers, marketers, entrepreneurs, and the odd software development anthropologist.

## Annual "State of" Reports

- [Github State of the Octoverse Report](https://octoverse.github.com/) (2016 - Present)
  - [2021](https://octoverse.github.com/2021/)
  - [2020](https://octoverse.github.com/2020/)
  - [2019](https://octoverse.github.com/2019/)
  - [2018](https://octoverse.github.com/2018/)
  - [2017](https://octoverse.github.com/2017/)
  - [2016](https://octoverse.github.com/2016/)

- [Stack Overflow Developer Surveys]() (2011 - Present)
  - [2022](https://survey.stackoverflow.co/2022)
  - [2021](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2021)
  - [2020](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2020)
  - [2019](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2019)
  - [2018](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2018)
  - [2017](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2017)
  - [2016](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2016)
  - [2015](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2015)
  - [2014](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2014)
  - [2013](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2013)
  - [2012](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2012)
  - [2011](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2011)

- [Devographics' State of JS Survey](https://stateofjs.com/en-us/) (2016 - Present)
  - [2021](https://2021.stateofjs.com/)
  - [2020](https://2020.stateofjs.com/)
  - [2019](https://2019.stateofjs.com/)
  - [2018](https://2018.stateofjs.com/)
  - [2017](https://2017.stateofjs.com/)
  - [2016](https://2016.stateofjs.com/)

- [Devographics' State of CSS](https://stateofcss.com/en-us/) (2019 - Present)
  - [2021](https://2021.stateofcss.com/)
  - [2020](https://2020.stateofcss.com/)
  - [2019](https://2019.stateofcss.com/)

- [Devographics' State of Graph QL](https://www.stateofgraphql.com/en-us/) (2022 - Present)
  - [2022](https://www.stateofgraphql.com/en-us/) This one is still running. Submit your answers!
 
- [Basedash State of Databases](https://stateofdb.com/) (2022 - Present)
  - [2023](https://stateofdb.com/)
  - [2022](https://2022.stateofdb.com/)

- [The State of Laravel Survey](https://stateoflaravel.com/) (2022 - Present)
  - [2023](https://stateoflaravel.com/) - * Currently running
  - [2022](https://stateoflaravel.com/results)

- PYPL Popularity Surveys
  - [Programming Languages](https://pypl.github.io/PYPL.html)
  - [IDEs](https://pypl.github.io/IDE.html)
  - [ODEs](https://pypl.github.io/ODE.html)
  - [Databases](https://pypl.github.io/DB.html)

- **Smartbear's Various State Ofs** Smartbear, unfortunately, requires that you provide an email address to access this information. I'll leave it up to the individual reader to decide whether the information they provide is worth having your inbox flooded with promotional emails about Swaggerhub.


## Contributing
Please do! If you know about any surveys that we are missing, please open an issue or make a PR.
